Hi! Welcome to the repository for my master’s thesis, which is about the prevalence and expression of menstrual taboos, specifically through a human behavioural ecology lens.

Documents in this repository:

Raw Ethnographic Data: The original data collected from the Human Relations Area Files divided by world area. This gives the original ethnographic section that references menstrual taboos, the year covered by the ethnography, the date, and the citation from which it is pulled.
Data to Run R Code: This is the cleaned and compiled dataset in a CSV file. This also includes the phylogenetic tree created by Duba & Zvarvy (2016) in a nexus file.
R Code: This is the RMD and PDF files of the R code to complete the ecological analysis in this thesis.
Interactive Map: An interactive map showing the spatial distribution in the sample. Hovering over the points shows you the culture, the presence of menstrual taboos, the restriction level of the menstrual taboos, the percentage of men married with more than one wife, the subsistence strategy, the biome, the landscape, the mean monthly temperature, temperature variability, temperature predictability, the mean monthly precipitation, precipitation variability, and precipitation predictability. This section also includes an HTML file to reproduce the graphic.
Interactive Phylogenetic Tree: An interactive phylogenetic tree showing the potential ancestral relatedness of the sample. Hovering over the points shows you the culture, the presence of menstrual taboos, the restriction level of the menstrual taboos, the percentage of men married with more than one wife, the subsistence strategy, the biome, the landscape, the mean monthly temperature, temperature variability, temperature predictability, the mean monthly precipitation, precipitation variability, and precipitation predictability. This section also includes an HTML file to reproduce the graphic.
